Create a troubleshooting guide for Application Connector (#5312)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/application-connector/10-02-application-gateway-troubleshooting.md

---

> title: Application Gateway troubleshooting

Reviewer: As a user, I don't know the architecture of the AC by heart. I don't know and I don't care what part of the AC is responsible for the errors I'm getting. 
Change the description to something that describes the problem that you're trying to solve, for example: 
`Error when calling a registered service`

type: Troubleshooting
---

> In case user calls registered service and receives an error:

Reviewer: In case -> if
user -> you

> In case user calls registered service and receives an error:

Author: ```suggestion
If you call a registered service and receive an error:
```

- Verify that the call reached Application Gateway.  

>   To do that fetch logs from Application Gateway pod:

Author: ```suggestion
  To do that fetch logs from Application Gateway Pod:
```

  ```
  kubectl -n kyma-integration logs -l app={APP_NAME}-application-gateway -c {APP_NAME}-application-gateway
  ```

>   If the request reached the pod, it should be logged by Application Gateway.

Reviewer: pod -> Pod

If it reached the Pod, why SHOULD it be logged? If it reaches then it's logged. 
If I got an error and the call's logged then what?

>   If the request reached the pod, it should be logged by Application Gateway.

Author: ```suggestion
  If the request reached the Pod, it should be logged by Application Gateway.
```

>   If the call is not in the logs, check if Access Service exists.

Reviewer: Give more context? What's the Access Service? What's its relation to the service? 
You could link to a place in docs that explains what Acc. Svc. is.

  ```
  kubectl -n kyma-integration get svc app-{APP_NAME}-{SERVICE_ID}
  ```

>   If it doesn't, try to deregister the Service using the following command:

Reviewer: Access Services are created either per service or per registered Application. 

Don't use "the following" unless you really have to. "Run this command to deregister the service" / "to deregister (...) run / run this command:"

  <div tabs name="deregistration">
    <details>
    <summary>
    With trusted certificate
    </summary>

    ```
    curl -X DELETE https://gateway.{CLUSTER_DOMAIN}/{APP_NAME}/v1/metadata/services/{SERVICE_ID} --cert {CERTIFICATE_FILE} --key {KEY_FILE}
    ```
    </details>
    <details>
    <summary>
    Without trusted certificate
    </summary>

    ```
    curl -X DELETE https://gateway.{CLUSTER_DOMAIN}/{APP_NAME}/v1/metadata/services/{SERVICE_ID} --cert {CERTIFICATE_FILE} --key {KEY_FILE} -k
    ```
    </details>
  </div>

>   and register it again.

Reviewer: It doesn't work like this in the docs, you can't treat code blocks like interruptions in sentences. 
Start a new sentence after you introduce code blocks.

> - Verify that the target URL is correct. 

Reviewer: Should I bother to do that if there are problems with the Access Service?

> - Verify that the target URL is correct. 

Reviewer: What do you mean by "target URL"? What URL is that, what is it a part of?

>   To do that, you can fetch the Service definition from Application Registry:

Reviewer: Don't do "can". Use imperative.

>   To do that, you can fetch the Service definition from Application Registry:

Author: ```suggestion
  To do that, fetch the Service definition from Application Registry:
```

  <div tabs name="verification">
    <details>
    <summary>
    With trusted certificate
    </summary>

    ```
    curl https://gateway.{CLUSTER_DOMAIN}/{APP_NAME}/v1/metadata/services/{SERVICE_ID} --cert {CERTIFICATE_FILE} --key {KEY_FILE}
    ```
    </details>
    <details>
    <summary>
    Without trusted certificate
    </summary>

    ```
    curl https://gateway.{CLUSTER_DOMAIN}/{APP_NAME}/v1/metadata/services/{SERVICE_ID} --cert {CERTIFICATE_FILE} --key {KEY_FILE} -k
    ```
    </details>
  </div>

>   You should receive the `json` response with the service definition.

Reviewer: "The" response? Do you always get the same one, or is it "a" response that changes depending on the service?

>   Access the target url directly to verify that the value of `api.targetUrl` is correct.

Reviewer: URL

>   Access the target url directly to verify that the value of `api.targetUrl` is correct.

Author: ```suggestion
  Access the target URL directly to verify that the value of `api.targetUrl` is correct.
```

---

> title: Error when calling a registered Service

Reviewer: This document should be structured differently. 

Error -> check logs -> no logs? -> deregister service -> register service (why? shouldn't you let the user know that it will recreate the access service?) -> still error -> check URL

type: Troubleshooting
---

If you call a registered service and receive an error:

- Verify that the call reached Application Gateway.  
  To do that, fetch logs from Application Gateway Pod:
  ```
  kubectl -n kyma-integration logs -l app={APP_NAME}-application-gateway -c {APP_NAME}-application-gateway
  ```
  If the request reaches the Pod, it is logged by Application Gateway.
  

>   If the call is not in the logs, check if [Access Service](components/application-connector/#architecture-application-connector-components-access-service) for the Service you are trying to call exists.

Author: ```suggestion
  If the call is not in the logs, check if [Access Service](components/application-connector/#architecture-application-connector-components-access-service) for the service you are trying to call exists.
```

  ```
  kubectl -n kyma-integration get svc app-{APP_NAME}-{SERVICE_ID}
  ```

>   If Access Service does not exist, run this command to deregister the Service:

Author: ```suggestion
  If Access Service does not exist, run this command to deregister the service you tried to call:
```

  <div tabs name="deregistration">
    <details>
    <summary>
    With trusted certificate
    </summary>

    ```
    curl -X DELETE https://gateway.{CLUSTER_DOMAIN}/{APP_NAME}/v1/metadata/services/{SERVICE_ID} --cert {CERTIFICATE_FILE} --key {KEY_FILE}
    ```
    </details>
    <details>
    <summary>
    Without trusted certificate
    </summary>

    ```
    curl -X DELETE https://gateway.{CLUSTER_DOMAIN}/{APP_NAME}/v1/metadata/services/{SERVICE_ID} --cert {CERTIFICATE_FILE} --key {KEY_FILE} -k
    ```
    </details>
  </div>

  Then register the Service.  

>   To register a Service, see [this tutorial](components/application-connector/#tutorials-register-a-service-register-a-service) again.

Reviewer: Don't use "again". 
The person who gets this error might not be the same one who registered the service.

>   To register a Service, see [this tutorial](components/application-connector/#tutorials-register-a-service-register-a-service) again.

Author: ```suggestion
  To register a Service, see [this tutorial](components/application-connector/#tutorials-register-a-service-register-a-service.
```

>   To register a service, see [this tutorial](components/application-connector/#tutorials-register-a-service-register-a-service.

Author: ```suggestion
  To register a service, see [this tutorial](components/application-connector/#tutorials-register-a-service-register-a-service).
```

> - If you still receive an error, check the target URL of the API that you have registered and verify that it is correct.  

Author: ```suggestion
- If your call reaches Application Gateway and Access Service exists, but you still receive an error, check the target URL of the API that you have registered and verify that it is correct.  
```
Or is 
> if you executed the previous step but you still receive an error
enough? Here you refer to "the previous step" though, which is probably undesirable.

  To do that, fetch the Service definition from Application Registry:

  <div tabs name="verification">
    <details>
    <summary>
    With trusted certificate
    </summary>

    ```
    curl https://gateway.{CLUSTER_DOMAIN}/{APP_NAME}/v1/metadata/services/{SERVICE_ID} --cert {CERTIFICATE_FILE} --key {KEY_FILE}
    ```
    </details>
    <details>
    <summary>
    Without trusted certificate
    </summary>

    ```
    curl https://gateway.{CLUSTER_DOMAIN}/{APP_NAME}/v1/metadata/services/{SERVICE_ID} --cert {CERTIFICATE_FILE} --key {KEY_FILE} -k
    ```
    </details>
  </div>

>   You should receive a `json` response with the Service definition that contains the target URL.  

Author: I like it! 
```suggestion
  A successful call returns a `json` response with the Service definition that contains the target URL.  
```

---
title: Error when calling a registered service
type: Troubleshooting
---

If you call a registered service and receive an error, follow these steps to detect the source of the problem:

1. Check the logs

    Check the logs from Application Gateway Pod to verify that the call reached Application Gateway.   
    To fetch these logs, run this command:
    ```
    kubectl -n kyma-integration logs -l app={APP_NAME}-application-gateway -c {APP_NAME}-application-gateway
    ```
    The request that reached the Pod is logged by Application Gateway.
  
2. Check for Access Service

>     If the call you tried to make is not in the logs, check if [Access Service](components/application-connector/#architecture-application-connector-components-access-service) for the service you are trying to call exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If the call you tried to make is not in the logs, check if an [Access Service](#architecture-application-connector-components-access-service) exists for the service you are trying to call.
```

    ```
    kubectl -n kyma-integration get svc app-{APP_NAME}-{SERVICE_ID}
    ```
3. Re-register the service

    If Access Service does not exist, run this command to deregister the service you tried to call:

    <div tabs name="deregistration">
      <details>
      <summary>
      With a trusted certificate
      </summary>

      ```
      curl -X DELETE https://gateway.{CLUSTER_DOMAIN}/{APP_NAME}/v1/metadata/services/{SERVICE_ID} --cert {CERTIFICATE_FILE} --key {KEY_FILE}
      ```
      </details>
      <details>
      <summary>
      Without a trusted certificate
      </summary>

      ```
      curl -X DELETE https://gateway.{CLUSTER_DOMAIN}/{APP_NAME}/v1/metadata/services/{SERVICE_ID} --cert {CERTIFICATE_FILE} --key {KEY_FILE} -k
      ```
      </details>
    </div>

>     Then, register the service and try calling again. The service re-registration recreates Access Service.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Then, register the service and try calling again. Registering the service again recreates the Access Service.  
```

    To register a service, see [this tutorial](components/application-connector/#tutorials-register-a-service-register-a-service).

4. Check the API URL

>     If your call reaches Application Gateway and Access Service exists, but you still receive an error, check if the API URL in the service definition matches the API URL of the actual service you are trying to call.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If your call reaches the Application Gateway and the Access Service exists, but you still receive an error, check if the API URL in the service definition matches the API URL of the actual service you are trying to call.  
```

    To check the target URL of the API, fetch the Service definition from Application Registry:

    <div tabs name="verification">
      <details>
      <summary>
      With a trusted certificate
      </summary>

      ```
      curl https://gateway.{CLUSTER_DOMAIN}/{APP_NAME}/v1/metadata/services/{SERVICE_ID} --cert {CERTIFICATE_FILE} --key {KEY_FILE}
      ```
      </details>
      <details>
      <summary>
      Without a trusted certificate
      </summary>

      ```
      curl https://gateway.{CLUSTER_DOMAIN}/{APP_NAME}/v1/metadata/services/{SERVICE_ID} --cert {CERTIFICATE_FILE} --key {KEY_FILE} -k
      ```
      </details>
    </div>

    A successful call returns a `json` response with the service definition that contains the target URL.  

>     Access the target URL directly to verify that the value of `api.targetUrl` is correct.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Call the target URL directly to verify that the value of `api.targetUrl` is correct.
```
